only a warm-blooded bird that stays with
its eggs and keeps them warm to would
have any chance at all at breeding in
these conditions and conditions are
getting worse temperatures are
plummeting these penguins have journeyed
here to find a partner and to mate now
inside the female's body another journey
starts here in her ovary the largest of
a cluster of follicles as reached
maturity and contains an ovum most is
yolk food for the new chick but there's
also a nucleus containing half of the
chicks genes when it's released the ovum
begins its journey down her reproductive
tract
waiting sperm swarm all over it
searching for the nucleus
several get through
but only one can contribute it's half of
the chicks jeans now that the egg is
fertilized muscles contract to keep it
moving
spiral ridges force it to rotate
certainly can be coated with albumin the
egg white that will provide the chip
with water and protein and defend it
against infection strength of albumin
suspend the yolk like a hammock allowing
it to rotate and ensuring that the
embryo remains on top where he can
develop safely
everything is bound together by
membranes but the egg is still soft and
fragile
to survive in the outside world it will
need a shell for months the female
penguin has been storing calcium in
cavities in her bones now her blood
carries that calcium to her shell gland
where it surrounds the egg as a
concentrated solution but seeding points
on the fibrous shell membrane as the
calcium crystallizes entwined with
special protein as it grows to form an
egg shell
finally comes the cuticle which helps
waterproof the egg and gives it its
characteristic texture now it's ready to
be made only by producing a completely
self-contained world in which the embryo
can live and grow for the next 64 days
can these birds create a new life in
this inhospitable place but making it as
exhausted the female she needs to find
food she passes the egg to her partner
he takes it into his brood pouch a
pocket that holds the egg just above his
feet and next to a patch of their warm
skin and she joins the other females on
the long walk back to the sea and to
food
but it will be months before the male's
eat again
they're just incubators now it may seem
a strange system but it works because
inside its egg the chick has food when
there is no food available nearby and
warmth when outside it's freezing